docs/specs/ingestion/15_operations_runbook.md, before:

# Ingestion Operations Runbook (v1)
_Last updated: 2026-03-01_

## 1) Purpose

Define repeatable, low-risk procedures for:

1. replaying ingestion by run ID
2. truncating ingestion tables safely
3. handling common ingestion incidents
4. performing guarded full resets only when necessary
5. executing quarterly ingestion governance reviews

## 2) Safety Rules

1. Prefer replay and ingestion-table cleanup before full reset.
2. Never run linked reset against production-like environments.
3. For any full reset command, require:
   - explicit override flag
   - explicit environment confirmation token
   - `INGEST_ENVIRONMENT` match with `--environment`
4. Run `--dry-run` first before executing any reset command.
5. Record incident/work item ID and operator in run notes before destructive actions.

## 2.1) Incident Severity Routing SLA

Alert routing and response expectations:

1. Sev-1:
   - routes: `ingestion-oncall`, `compliance-owner`, `product-owner`
   - acknowledge within 15 minutes
   - mitigation started within 60 minutes
2. Sev-2:
   - routes: `ingestion-oncall`, `source-owner`
   - acknowledge within 60 minutes
   - mitigation started within 4 hours
3. Sev-3:
   - routes: `source-owner`
   - acknowledge within 4 hours
   - mitigation started within 24 hours

## 3) Preflight Checklist

1. Confirm which ingestion target you are operating on:
   - local ingestion stack (`supabase start --workdir ./ingestion`)
   - linked remote ingestion project (`--linked --workdir ./ingestion`)
2. Validate environment contract:

```bash
node scripts/validate-env.mjs --runtime pipeline
node scripts/validate-env.mjs --runtime pipeline-reconcile
```

3. If using local ingestion, verify ports/credentials:

```bash
supabase status --workdir ./ingestion
```

4. If you need cleanup SQL content:

```bash
npm run ingest:cleanup:sql
```

## 4) Replay Flow by Run ID

Use this flow when extractor logic changed or a run had partial/failed behavior and you need a controlled replay.

### 4.1 Identify Original Run

```sql
select
  id,
  source_key,
  status,
  started_at,
  finished_at,
  meta_json->>'snapshot_location' as snapshot_location
from public.ingest_runs
where id = '<RUN_ID>';
```

Expected:

1. one row returned
2. `source_key` is present
3. optionally capture `snapshot_location` for forensic diff

### 4.2 Capture Baseline Before Replay

```sql
select
  status,
  count(*) as run_count
from public.ingest_runs
where source_key = '<SOURCE_KEY>'
  and started_at >= now() - interval '24 hours'
group by status
order by status;
```

```sql
select
  count(*) as candidate_count
from public.ingest_candidates
where run_id = '<RUN_ID>';
```

### 4.3 Execute Replay

Replay by run ID. This defaults to the original run's `source_config_version` and resolves historical source runtime config from audit history.

```bash
npm run pipeline:replay-run -- <RUN_ID>
```

Optional override when you need to test a different source config version:

```bash
npm run pipeline:replay-run -- <RUN_ID> --config-version <CONFIG_VERSION>
```

Save the new `replayRunId` from command output.

### 4.4 Verify Replay Outcome

```sql
select
  id,
  source_key,
  status,
  started_at,
  finished_at,
  meta_json
from public.ingest_runs
where source_key = '<SOURCE_KEY>'
order by started_at desc
limit 3;
```

```sql
select
  status,
  count(*) as candidate_count
from public.ingest_candidates
where run_id = '<NEW_RUN_ID>'
group by status
order by status;
```

If replay still fails or quality is poor, open tuning work and include both run IDs (`original`, `replay`).

## 5) Ingest-Table Truncate Workflow (Preferred Cleanup)

Use when you want to clear run/page/candidate data while preserving source registry configuration.

Affected tables (from `ingestion/supabase/sql/cleanup_ingestion_tables.sql`):

1. `ingest_sync_log`
2. `ingest_candidate_traits`
3. `ingest_editor_labels`
4. `ingest_candidates`
5. `ingest_pages`
6. `ingest_runs`

### 5.1 Local Ingestion Cleanup

1. Ensure local ingestion stack is running:

```bash
npm run ingest:supabase:start
```

2. Apply cleanup SQL to local ingestion DB:

```bash
psql "postgresql://postgres:postgres@127.0.0.1:55322/postgres" \
  -f ingestion/supabase/sql/cleanup_ingestion_tables.sql
```

3. Verify cleanup and preserved registry:

```sql
select count(*) as runs from public.ingest_runs;
select count(*) as candidates from public.ingest_candidates;
select count(*) as source_registry_rows from public.ingest_source_registry;
```

### 5.2 Linked Ingestion Cleanup

1. Print SQL for operator review:

```bash
npm run ingest:cleanup:sql
```

2. Execute same SQL in linked project SQL editor (or approved SQL execution path).
3. Run the same verification queries as local cleanup.

## 6) Full Reset Procedures (Last Resort)

Only use when schema or local state is irrecoverably inconsistent.

### 6.1 Full Local Reset

Dry-run:

```bash
INGEST_ENVIRONMENT=local npm run ingest:supabase:reset -- \
  --allow-local-reset --environment local --confirm reset-local --dry-run
```

Execute:

```bash
INGEST_ENVIRONMENT=local npm run ingest:supabase:reset -- \
  --allow-local-reset --environment local --confirm reset-local
```

### 6.2 Full Linked Reset (Staging/Test Only)

Dry-run:

```bash
INGEST_ENVIRONMENT=staging npm run ingest:supabase:reset:linked -- \
  --allow-linked-reset --environment staging --confirm reset-staging --dry-run
```

Execute:

```bash
INGEST_ENVIRONMENT=staging npm run ingest:supabase:reset:linked -- \
  --allow-linked-reset --environment staging --confirm reset-staging
```

Hard blocks:

1. linked reset is blocked for `prod`, `production`, `live`
2. reset blocked when `INGEST_ENVIRONMENT` and `--environment` differ

## 7) Common Incident Response Playbooks

Each incident includes detection, immediate mitigation, diagnosis, and recovery.

### 7.1 Source Extraction Broke After Site Change

Detection:

1. run failures spike for one `source_key`
2. candidate yield drops to zero for normally productive source

Immediate mitigation:

1. pause scheduled runs for affected source (or stop manual reruns)
2. run one controlled `pipeline:run-source` to capture current failure evidence

Diagnosis:

1. inspect `ingest_pages.error_text` for top failing URLs
2. compare latest and prior successful run snapshots (`snapshot_location`)
3. confirm selector/structure drift in source HTML

Recovery:

1. patch extractor/parser
2. run replay flow by run ID (Section 4)
3. verify candidate quality and source URL integrity in Studio inbox

### 7.2 Ingestion DB Connectivity Failure

Detection:

1. pipeline command fails early with Supabase client fetch/connect errors
2. no new `ingest_runs` rows written

Immediate mitigation:

1. verify credentials with `node scripts/validate-env.mjs --runtime pipeline`
2. for local stacks, run `supabase status --workdir ./ingestion`

Diagnosis:

1. confirm `INGEST_SUPABASE_URL` and key target intended environment
2. verify local Docker services healthy (if local mode)
3. validate no accidental app/ingestion URL collision

Recovery:

1. restore connectivity
2. run controlled `pipeline:run-source`
3. if promotion desync suspected, run `pipeline:reconcile-promotions`

### 7.3 Promotion/Reconciliation Desync

Detection:

1. drafts exist with `ingest_candidate_id` but candidate status not `pushed_to_studio`
2. missing or failed `ingest_sync_log` records for promoted rows

Immediate mitigation:

1. run reconciliation job:

```bash
npm run pipeline:reconcile-promotions
```

Diagnosis:

1. inspect reconciliation output counts (`planned*`, `repaired*`, `failed*`)
2. review sync log entries for affected candidates

Recovery:

1. rerun reconciliation until `failed*` counters are zero
2. if failures persist, resolve credential/network issue and rerun

### 7.4 Duplicate Explosion in Inbox

Detection:

1. elevated duplicate flags (`duplicate_candidate_key_existing`)
2. editors report many near-identical candidates

Immediate mitigation:

1. keep inbox filtered to `curated` by default
2. prioritize likely duplicate rows using duplicate-risk filter

Diagnosis:

1. inspect source-level candidate key patterns
2. review recent extractor changes and URL normalization behavior
3. check for source listing loops or URL canonicalization regressions

Recovery:

1. patch source module dedupe/canonical URL logic
2. replay affected source and re-check duplicate rate
3. reject stale duplicate candidates in Studio as needed

### 7.5 Low-Quality Surge in Inbox

Detection:

1. increased `normalized`/filtered ratio
2. editor rejection or heavy rewrite burden increases

Immediate mitigation:

1. keep low-confidence and likely-duplicate filters active during triage
2. temporarily reduce run frequency for affected sources if editor load is high

Diagnosis:

1. inspect quality flags in candidate detail
2. compare run-level quality counts in `ingest_runs.meta_json`
3. identify source-specific failure patterns

Recovery:

1. tune quality rules and extractor cleanup heuristics
2. replay source after tuning
3. confirm confidence and promotion rate recovery over subsequent runs

### 7.6 Tuning Rollout Guardrail Regression

Detection:

1. full `adopt` rollout blocked in Studio with guardrail regression message
2. duplicate/safety/compliance guardrail metric worsens in canary

Immediate mitigation:

1. halt additional rollouts for the source
2. execute Studio rollback action with last known good config patch

Recovery:

1. open `Studio > Ingestion > Experiment & Tuning History`
2. run `Rollback Tuning Config` with rollback reason and patch JSON
3. confirm new config version in success banner and source audit trail
4. record follow-up experiment as `revert` decision if needed

## 8) Post-Incident Closure

1. Record incident summary and affected run IDs.
2. Record commands executed and outcomes.
3. Link code/doc changes made during recovery.
4. Add follow-up tasks to ingestion backlog if a contract gap was found.

## 9) Quarterly Governance Review Operation

Use this flow once per quarter (first 10 business days) to maintain source portfolio and policy governance.

### 9.1 Prepare Pre-Read Data

1. Export/record Studio source portfolio views for 7/30/90 days.
2. Capture source health evidence:

```bash
npm run pipeline:source-health
```

3. Capture incident/compliance evidence:

```bash
npm run pipeline:incident-alerts
```

4. Capture top label-quality signals (reject reasons, rewrite burden, duplicate-confirmed rate) from Studio analytics.

### 9.2 Run Review and Record Decisions

1. Use template in `16_quarterly_governance_review_operation.md`.
2. Review each active source against value vs maintenance burden.
3. For every source decision, assign:
   - owner
   - due date
   - lifecycle target state (keep/degrade/pause/retire)
4. Record policy updates and retraining actions with owners/dates.

### 9.3 Publish and Follow Through

1. Publish completed quarterly record within 3 business days.
2. Copy all action items into backlog/tracker within 2 business days.
3. Verify all decisions have at least one owner and one due date.

Commit message:

documentation for using the new ingestion system

docs/specs/ingestion/15_operations_runbook.md, after:

# Ingestion Operations Runbook (v1)
_Last updated: 2026-03-01_

## 1) Purpose

Define repeatable, low-risk procedures for:

1. replaying ingestion by run ID
2. truncating ingestion tables safely
3. handling common ingestion incidents
4. performing guarded full resets only when necessary
5. executing quarterly ingestion governance reviews

For full day-to-day usage instructions, see `17_system_usage_guide.md`.

## 2) Safety Rules

1. Prefer replay and ingestion-table cleanup before full reset.
2. Never run linked reset against production-like environments.
3. For any full reset command, require:
   - explicit override flag
   - explicit environment confirmation token
   - `INGEST_ENVIRONMENT` match with `--environment`
4. Run `--dry-run` first before executing any reset command.
5. Record incident/work item ID and operator in run notes before destructive actions.

## 2.1) Incident Severity Routing SLA

Alert routing and response expectations:

1. Sev-1:
   - routes: `ingestion-oncall`, `compliance-owner`, `product-owner`
   - acknowledge within 15 minutes
   - mitigation started within 60 minutes
2. Sev-2:
   - routes: `ingestion-oncall`, `source-owner`
   - acknowledge within 60 minutes
   - mitigation started within 4 hours
3. Sev-3:
   - routes: `source-owner`
   - acknowledge within 4 hours
   - mitigation started within 24 hours

## 3) Preflight Checklist

1. Confirm which ingestion target you are operating on:
   - local ingestion stack (`supabase start --workdir ./ingestion`)
   - linked remote ingestion project (`--linked --workdir ./ingestion`)
2. Validate environment contract:

```bash
node scripts/validate-env.mjs --runtime pipeline
node scripts/validate-env.mjs --runtime pipeline-reconcile
```

3. If using local ingestion, verify ports/credentials:

```bash
supabase status --workdir ./ingestion
```

4. If you need cleanup SQL content:

```bash
npm run ingest:cleanup:sql
```

## 4) Replay Flow by Run ID

Use this flow when extractor logic changed or a run had partial/failed behavior and you need a controlled replay.

### 4.1 Identify Original Run

```sql
select
  id,
  source_key,
  status,
  started_at,
  finished_at,
  meta_json->>'snapshot_location' as snapshot_location
from public.ingest_runs
where id = '<RUN_ID>';
```

Expected:

1. one row returned
2. `source_key` is present
3. optionally capture `snapshot_location` for forensic diff

### 4.2 Capture Baseline Before Replay

```sql
select
  status,
  count(*) as run_count
from public.ingest_runs
where source_key = '<SOURCE_KEY>'
  and started_at >= now() - interval '24 hours'
group by status
order by status;
```

```sql
select
  count(*) as candidate_count
from public.ingest_candidates
where run_id = '<RUN_ID>';
```

### 4.3 Execute Replay

Replay by run ID. This defaults to the original run's `source_config_version` and resolves historical source runtime config from audit history.

```bash
npm run pipeline:replay-run -- <RUN_ID>
```

Optional override when you need to test a different source config version:

```bash
npm run pipeline:replay-run -- <RUN_ID> --config-version <CONFIG_VERSION>
```

Save the new `replayRunId` from command output.

### 4.4 Verify Replay Outcome

```sql
select
  id,
  source_key,
  status,
  started_at,
  finished_at,
  meta_json
from public.ingest_runs
where source_key = '<SOURCE_KEY>'
order by started_at desc
limit 3;
```

```sql
select
  status,
  count(*) as candidate_count
from public.ingest_candidates
where run_id = '<NEW_RUN_ID>'
group by status
order by status;
```

If replay still fails or quality is poor, open tuning work and include both run IDs (`original`, `replay`).

## 5) Ingest-Table Truncate Workflow (Preferred Cleanup)

Use when you want to clear run/page/candidate data while preserving source registry configuration.

Affected tables (from `ingestion/supabase/sql/cleanup_ingestion_tables.sql`):

1. `ingest_sync_log`
2. `ingest_candidate_traits`
3. `ingest_editor_labels`
4. `ingest_candidates`
5. `ingest_pages`
6. `ingest_runs`

### 5.1 Local Ingestion Cleanup

1. Ensure local ingestion stack is running:

```bash
npm run ingest:supabase:start
```

2. Apply cleanup SQL to local ingestion DB:

```bash
psql "postgresql://postgres:postgres@127.0.0.1:55322/postgres" \
  -f ingestion/supabase/sql/cleanup_ingestion_tables.sql
```

3. Verify cleanup and preserved registry:

```sql
select count(*) as runs from public.ingest_runs;
select count(*) as candidates from public.ingest_candidates;
select count(*) as source_registry_rows from public.ingest_source_registry;
```

### 5.2 Linked Ingestion Cleanup

1. Print SQL for operator review:

```bash
npm run ingest:cleanup:sql
```

2. Execute same SQL in linked project SQL editor (or approved SQL execution path).
3. Run the same verification queries as local cleanup.

## 6) Full Reset Procedures (Last Resort)

Only use when schema or local state is irrecoverably inconsistent.

### 6.1 Full Local Reset

Dry-run:

```bash
INGEST_ENVIRONMENT=local npm run ingest:supabase:reset -- \
  --allow-local-reset --environment local --confirm reset-local --dry-run
```

Execute:

```bash
INGEST_ENVIRONMENT=local npm run ingest:supabase:reset -- \
  --allow-local-reset --environment local --confirm reset-local
```

### 6.2 Full Linked Reset (Staging/Test Only)

Dry-run:

```bash
INGEST_ENVIRONMENT=staging npm run ingest:supabase:reset:linked -- \
  --allow-linked-reset --environment staging --confirm reset-staging --dry-run
```

Execute:

```bash
INGEST_ENVIRONMENT=staging npm run ingest:supabase:reset:linked -- \
  --allow-linked-reset --environment staging --confirm reset-staging
```

Hard blocks:

1. linked reset is blocked for `prod`, `production`, `live`
2. reset blocked when `INGEST_ENVIRONMENT` and `--environment` differ

## 7) Common Incident Response Playbooks

Each incident includes detection, immediate mitigation, diagnosis, and recovery.

### 7.1 Source Extraction Broke After Site Change

Detection:

1. run failures spike for one `source_key`
2. candidate yield drops to zero for normally productive source

Immediate mitigation:

1. pause scheduled runs for affected source (or stop manual reruns)
2. run one controlled `pipeline:run-source` to capture current failure evidence

Diagnosis:

1. inspect `ingest_pages.error_text` for top failing URLs
2. compare latest and prior successful run snapshots (`snapshot_location`)
3. confirm selector/structure drift in source HTML

Recovery:

1. patch extractor/parser
2. run replay flow by run ID (Section 4)
3. verify candidate quality and source URL integrity in Studio inbox

### 7.2 Ingestion DB Connectivity Failure

Detection:

1. pipeline command fails early with Supabase client fetch/connect errors
2. no new `ingest_runs` rows written

Immediate mitigation:

1. verify credentials with `node scripts/validate-env.mjs --runtime pipeline`
2. for local stacks, run `supabase status --workdir ./ingestion`

Diagnosis:

1. confirm `INGEST_SUPABASE_URL` and key target intended environment
2. verify local Docker services healthy (if local mode)
3. validate no accidental app/ingestion URL collision

Recovery:

1. restore connectivity
2. run controlled `pipeline:run-source`
3. if promotion desync suspected, run `pipeline:reconcile-promotions`

### 7.3 Promotion/Reconciliation Desync

Detection:

1. drafts exist with `ingest_candidate_id` but candidate status not `pushed_to_studio`
2. missing or failed `ingest_sync_log` records for promoted rows

Immediate mitigation:

1. run reconciliation job:

```bash
npm run pipeline:reconcile-promotions
```

Diagnosis:

1. inspect reconciliation output counts (`planned*`, `repaired*`, `failed*`)
2. review sync log entries for affected candidates

Recovery:

1. rerun reconciliation until `failed*` counters are zero
2. if failures persist, resolve credential/network issue and rerun

### 7.4 Duplicate Explosion in Inbox

Detection:

1. elevated duplicate flags (`duplicate_candidate_key_existing`)
2. editors report many near-identical candidates

Immediate mitigation:

1. keep inbox filtered to `curated` by default
2. prioritize likely duplicate rows using duplicate-risk filter

Diagnosis:

1. inspect source-level candidate key patterns
2. review recent extractor changes and URL normalization behavior
3. check for source listing loops or URL canonicalization regressions

Recovery:

1. patch source module dedupe/canonical URL logic
2. replay affected source and re-check duplicate rate
3. reject stale duplicate candidates in Studio as needed

### 7.5 Low-Quality Surge in Inbox

Detection:

1. increased `normalized`/filtered ratio
2. editor rejection or heavy rewrite burden increases

Immediate mitigation:

1. keep low-confidence and likely-duplicate filters active during triage
2. temporarily reduce run frequency for affected sources if editor load is high

Diagnosis:

1. inspect quality flags in candidate detail
2. compare run-level quality counts in `ingest_runs.meta_json`
3. identify source-specific failure patterns

Recovery:

1. tune quality rules and extractor cleanup heuristics
2. replay source after tuning
3. confirm confidence and promotion rate recovery over subsequent runs

### 7.6 Tuning Rollout Guardrail Regression

Detection:

1. full `adopt` rollout blocked in Studio with guardrail regression message
2. duplicate/safety/compliance guardrail metric worsens in canary

Immediate mitigation:

1. halt additional rollouts for the source
2. execute Studio rollback action with last known good config patch

Recovery:

1. open `Studio > Ingestion > Experiment & Tuning History`
2. run `Rollback Tuning Config` with rollback reason and patch JSON
3. confirm new config version in success banner and source audit trail
4. record follow-up experiment as `revert` decision if needed

## 8) Post-Incident Closure

1. Record incident summary and affected run IDs.
2. Record commands executed and outcomes.
3. Link code/doc changes made during recovery.
4. Add follow-up tasks to ingestion backlog if a contract gap was found.

## 9) Quarterly Governance Review Operation

Use this flow once per quarter (first 10 business days) to maintain source portfolio and policy governance.

### 9.1 Prepare Pre-Read Data

1. Export/record Studio source portfolio views for 7/30/90 days.
2. Capture source health evidence:

```bash
npm run pipeline:source-health
```

3. Capture incident/compliance evidence:

```bash
npm run pipeline:incident-alerts
```

4. Capture top label-quality signals (reject reasons, rewrite burden, duplicate-confirmed rate) from Studio analytics.

### 9.2 Run Review and Record Decisions

1. Use template in `16_quarterly_governance_review_operation.md`.
2. Review each active source against value vs maintenance burden.
3. For every source decision, assign:
   - owner
   - due date
   - lifecycle target state (keep/degrade/pause/retire)
4. Record policy updates and retraining actions with owners/dates.

### 9.3 Publish and Follow Through

1. Publish completed quarterly record within 3 business days.
2. Copy all action items into backlog/tracker within 2 business days.
3. Verify all decisions have at least one owner and one due date.
